So we've spent a lot of the previous videos looking at sinusoids,
and sinusoids are great signals to look at for learning concepts.
But in the real world,
we rarely see perfect sinusoids.
So in this lesson, we're going to talk about a phenomenon that
occurs when dealing with periodic signals that aren't sinusoids.
When you take the Fourier transform of such a periodic signal,
you'll see periodic spikes in the Fourier transform.
We call the first spike the fundamental frequency,
and then the spikes following that one, the Harmonics.
So let's see this for ourselves.
We'll load up our accelerometer signal from the wrist
that we've seen before and this is while someone is jogging,
so we have this periodic motion to it.
Let's plot the Fourier transform and we do see periodic spikes in the Fourier transform.
The first one occurs at around 1.35 or
1.37 and then we have what we suspect are Harmonics following it.
So we can find out what the value of the fundamental frequency
is by looking at the largest frequency component in the first part of the signal,
and that looks to be 1.375 Hertz and then we can compute where
we expect the Harmonics to be by taking
integer multiples of the fundamental frequency, that's right here.
So if we plot the fundamental frequency and
the Harmonics on top of our Fourier transform,
we can see that they do roughly fall along the spikes.
So now we can be fairly confident that these
indeed are the Harmonics of our fundamental frequency.
In fact, if we plot the original time domain signal and a marker every 1.375 Hertz,
which is slightly more frequently than every second,
we can see that it lands up pretty well with the period of this waveform.
So maybe the fundamental frequency is
the cadence of the arm swing of this person who's jogging.
So this phenomenon is important to be aware of as
we move into dealing with more real world
signals because you'll see Harmonics show up in the Fourier transforms of this signals.